# AS/400 connection strings

.NET Libraries | OLE DB Providers | ODBC Drivers | Wrappers and others
--- | --- | --- | ---
IBM DB2 for i .NET data provider | IBM Client Access OLE DB provider | IBM i Access ODBC driver | .NET Framework Data Provider for OLE DB
&nbsp; | &nbsp; | IBM Client Access ODBC driver | .NET Framework Data Provider for ODBC
&nbsp; | &nbsp; | IBM iSeries Access ODBC driver

----

## IBM DB2 for i .NET data provider
### Standard
```
DataSource=myServerAddress;UserID=myUsername;Password=myPassword;DataCompression=True;
```

----

## IBM Client Access OLE DB provider
### Standard
Provider=IBMDA400;Data Source=MY_SYSTEM_NAME;User Id=myUsername;Password=myPassword;

Where MY_SYSTEM_NAME is the name given to the system connection in OperationsNavigator

### Specifying cellection
Provider=IBMDA400;Data Source=MY_SYSTEM_NAME;User Id=myUsername;Password=myPassword;Default Collection=MY_LIBRARY;

Where MY_SYSTEM_NAME is the name given to the System Connection, and MY_LIBRARY is the name given to the library in iSeries Navigator.

----

## .NET Framework Data Provider for OLE DB
### Use an OLE DB provider from .NET
Provider=any oledb provider's name;OledbKey1=someValue;OledbKey2=someValue;

See the respective OLEDB provider's connection strings options. The .net OleDbConnection will just pass on the connection string to the specified OLEDB provider. Read more here.

----

## IBM i Access ODBC driver
### Standard
```
Driver={IBM i Access ODBC Driver};System=mySystem;Uid=myUser;Pwd=myPassword;
```

### Variant for reserved error (-7778)

Try this if you encounter a "runtime error 3000; reserved error (-7778); there is no message for this error" message.
```
Driver={IBM i Access ODBC Driver};System=mySystem;Uid=myUser;Pwd=myPassword;MGDSN=0;
```
### Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) connection
```
Driver={IBM i Access ODBC Driver};System=mySystem;UID=myUser;PWD=myPassword;SSL=1;
```

### Read-only connection

Enbales SELECT statements only. No UPDATE etc.
```
Driver={IBM i Access ODBC Driver};System=mySystem;UID=myUser;PWD=myPassword;CONNTYPE=2;
```

Default is CONNTYPE=0 meaning all SQL statements allowed. CONNTYPE=1 means SELECT and CALL statements is allowed.

### Disable compression
```
Driver={IBM i Access ODBC Driver};System=mySystem;UID=myUser;PWD=myPassword;COMPRESSION=0;
```
Default is compression=1 meaning compression is enabled.

### Disable SELECT prefetching

Use this connection string to disable prefetching for SELECT statements.
```
Driver={IBM i Access ODBC Driver};System=mySystem;UID=myUser;PWD=myPassword;PREFETCH=0;
```
Default behaviour is that prefetch is enabled (PREFETCH=1) which will increase performance for SELECT statements when accessing the initial rows.

### Specify sorting language (collation)

Example using spanish (ESP) language for sorting.
```
Driver={IBM i Access ODBC Driver};System=mySystem;UID=myUser;PWD=myPassword;SORTTYPE=2;LANGUAGEID=ESP;
```
Language codes: AFR, ARA, BEL, BGR, CAT, CHS, CHT, CSY, DAN, DES, DEU, ELL, ENA, ENB, ENG, ENP, ENU, ESP, EST, FAR, FIN, FRA, FRB, FRC, FRS, GAE, HEB, HRV, HUN, ISL, ITA, ITS, JPN, KOR, LAO, LVA, LTU, MKD, NLB, NLD, NON, NOR, PLK, PTB, PTG, RMS, ROM, RUS, SKY, SLO, SQI, SRB, SRL, SVE, THA, TRK, UKR, URD, VIE

### Case sensitive sorting (collation)
```
Driver={IBM i Access ODBC Driver};System=mySystem;UID=myUser;PWD=myPassword;SORTTYPE=2;LANGUAGEID=ESP;SORTWEIGHT=1;
```
Default SORTWEIGHT value is 0 meaning case insensitive sorting.

----

## IBM Client Access ODBC driver
### Standard
```
Driver={Client Access ODBC Driver (32-bit)};System=my_system_name;Uid=myUsername;Pwd=myPassword;
```

### Variant

Try this if you encounter a "runtime error 3000; reserved error (-7778); there is no message for this error" message.
```
Driver={Client Access ODBC Driver (32-bit)};System=my_system_name;Uid=myUsername;Pwd=myPassword;MGDSN=0;
```

----

## IBM iSeries Access ODBC driver
### Standard

This driver is newer than the one above.
```
Driver={iSeries Access ODBC Driver};System=my_system_name;Uid=myUsername;Pwd=myPassword;
```

### Variant

Try this if you encounter a "runtime error 3000; reserved error (-7778); there is no message for this error" message.
```
Driver={iSeries Access ODBC Driver};System=my_system_name;Uid=myUsername;Pwd=myPassword;MGDSN=0;
```

----

## .NET Framework Data Provider for ODBC
### Use an ODBC driver from .NET
```
Driver={any odbc driver's name};OdbcKey1=someValue;OdbcKey2=someValue;
```
See the respective ODBC driver's connection strings options. The .net OdbcConnection will just pass on the connection string to the specified ODBC driver. Read more here.

